---
title: "Summer '22 Week 4"
weight: 20
pre: ""
---

{{< youtube IpcTiX6h2B4 >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="slides" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Video Script

Hello, and welcome to the week for announcements video for CIS 526 and CC 515 in summer 2022. This week you should be wrapping up milestone three, which is due tonight. So make sure you get that submitted online. And then this coming week, you'll be working on the week four lessons. There is no milestone due this coming week, because partially we have the Fourth of July holiday on Monday. And also partially because we've got a lot of content to cover. So you really have two weeks of content before the next milestone, and we'll talk about that in just a second. 

So first off, I will be working on milestone three grading this week. So make sure you keep an eye out for that. Look for code comments from me in GitHub for any usual things about code that you can improve. I'll also leave comments on the actual assignment details themselves in Codio that should also feed over to Canvas. If you have anything in particular you want to ask me about, you can use submission comments, or put it in your release notes on GitHub. Either one of those is helpful so that I know what I'm looking for. As always, please be patient with the grading all of this grading is done manually. And especially this week. And going forward. As the milestones get larger, it will take me more and more time to grade each individual one, I do try and take some time and read through a lot of your code. So it may take me a couple of days to get through all the grading. So please be patient and I will get back to you as soon as I can. 

So coming up this week, you'll start to work with dynamic web servers. So you'll be doing things such as working with server pages written in ECMAScript, you'll be looking at file uploads and sessions. And then eventually leading into week five, we'll start doing a tutorial on working with a block. And so that blog tutorial is really the core pieces of what you're going to need to work on the next milestone, which is milestone four, milestone four, we're going to take your app and refactor it once again, this time, you'll be building it as an express.js app. So you'll need to add routing through Express, you'll be adding things such as the static middleware, you'll be adding API endpoints to actually read the box locations from a database this time. And so you'll also actually be making some changes to the database, you'll be working with dynamic pages that you're actually going to submit using templates. And you're going to have a form and submit data from a form that gets put into the database. So this is really taking your app to the next level. It is a two week milestone, which means you have two weeks to work on it, I highly encourage you to try and get through all of the tutorials pretty quick this week and early next week. So you've got plenty of time to work on this milestone, this milestone four is significantly more complicated than milestones three and earlier. So make sure you allow plenty of time to work on milestone four. As always, if you have any questions with this, let me know I understand for some of you, especially in CC 515, you may not have a ton of database experience at this point. So if you do get stuck on the database, let me know. And I can give you some quick hints of how you can do a little bit of the SQL that you maybe haven't seen before. For those of you in CIS 526. Hopefully you've already taken 560 or in 560. And so you have seen some of that content already. But I do recognize the databases are a little bit outside of scope for this class. So if you need a little bit of help getting the SQL lite database to work, let me know. 

So other than that I'm always available for help. We've got discussions on Discord that we can always chat. I have tea time office hours every Tuesday 330 And Fridays at 1030. If you want to come hang out while you work. You can also do one on one office hours by scheduling time with me on Calendly. You can send me an email, I'm happy to answer questions as much as I can. But basically keep in mind you got two weeks to work on two weeks worth of content, but you have a doubly-sized milestone that is really big and difficult. So make sure you give yourself plenty of time to work on milestone four. So we're really switching over to start working with data and using some data driven website techniques. So you'll have a database that you're working with, you're actually going to build a responsive API that builds on the RESTful API standard. So we're really moving into more data driven websites. I hope this next milestone really helps open your eyes to how full stack web development really works. But as always, if you have any questions, let me know. I wish you the best of luck and I will see you again next Tuesday. 

