---
title: "Spring '25 Week 12"
weight: 25
pre: ""
---

{{< youtube QfPGo1BlPD8 >}}

#### Video Script

Hello and welcome to the week 12 announcements video for CIS 526 and CC 515 in spring 2025. I've got a few things I'm going to briefly cover this morning. First off, we have a guest speaker scheduled to come and talk to our class. This is going to be on Friday, April 25th at 2 o'clock p.m. Our speaker is Heather Pekrul. She is a front-end application architect at Garmin. She's been working with the company for over nine years, and prior to that has a wide range of experience working in web development. She uses a lot of the tools and things that we have used in this class, including view and node. She was actually the one that got me started working in view and working with the prime view component framework. So Heather has a lot of experience that's going to be very relevant to what you've been doing. 

For this thing, we're going to have two graded assignments that go along with the guest speaker. The first assignment is the guest speaker questions. What I'd like you to do is take a look at Heather's bio and background and come up with a couple of questions that you'd like to ask her during our session. So you'll submit that that's worth 10 points. The other 40 points you can earn one of two ways. First off, if you're available to attend the live session, great. We want to have you join the Zoom. And as long as you join the Zoom and ask at least one question that's relevant to the topic, you'll be able to earn those 40 points just for attending and asking a question. If you're not able to attend the event or you choose not to ask a question during the event, what you can do is watch the video afterward and then respond to a few question prompts that I'm going to provide just to kind of show that you were able to watch the video and get some information out of it. I will post those prompts shortly after the video and those will be due about a week after the event itself. Ideally, I'd really love to see a lot of people join this event on Zoom. I think it's really great that we can bring in a guest speaker for this class. And then of course, these points are going to go toward your projects grade. So this gives you effectively half of a standard project milestone that you can earn just by participating in this guest speaker. So I hope this is a really fun event. I want to see a lot of people there on Zoom. So make sure you mark your calendars for Friday, April 25th at 2 p.m. 

The second thing I wanna talk about this morning is I posted a quick tip on Ed discussion that just gives you an idea of one of the ways that you can help us if you have any trouble debugging your project. We get a lot of questions where students have some sort of an issue and then I have to email back and say, could you please commit your code to GitHub so we can take a look at it. So really what I want you to keep in mind is if you reach out to us, if you have any questions or concerns about your project, you can shortcut this entire process by committing and pushing your current code to GitHub and sending us a link to your repository when you ask a question. And then what I can do or our TAs can do is we can boot up your code in a GitHub code space using the code that you have the problem with, we can debug it and get back to you usually pretty quickly. So I just really wanna encourage you that if you ever reach out with you, any questions in this class, commit your current code to GitHub and send us a link to it. That way we can take a look at all your code, we can help debug, see what's going on and hopefully get you a response really, really quickly to any questions that you have. 

So taking a look at the course modules going on in this class, hopefully everybody is working on this authentication tutorial that was due today. Basically, we're taking the RESTful API that we built in part 3, and we're adding authentication to it, so it actually properly authenticates. Once you add the authentication, you won't be able to directly access the API through your browser. You'll have to use the OpenAPI docs to actually test that. But we'll write some updated unit tests so that we're very comfortable that our project works. And then I've also posted the next project, which is the view front end. This is where we're going to start building the actual view project for our application. This, again, is just a tutorial. There's not a milestone that goes along with it. So all you have to do is follow the video tutorials and get that submitted. I've also posted the guest speaker things in week 12. I'm currently working on week 13. I have all the content written. I just need to get the videos recorded. Hopefully that will be out soon. And then I'm working on the last week of content. And this is probably going to change to just be a couple of tutorials. And then there will be a final project milestone that I'll try and get posted by the end of this week, if not early next week. So you can start working toward the final project in this class. So the last thing I want to show you real quick, this is where we're going with this. By the end of the first front end milestone, we're going to have a basic CRUD application that allows us to create, read, update, and delete items in the database. So I'm going to show you what this actually looks like. So I've got my application running here. I'm going to log in as the manager username. And so when I log in as manager, we'll see that I get access to some new tabs where I can list all of the counties that are in our table. These are just read only. 

I can also list all of the communities that we've added to our table. And with each of these communities, I can actually go in and do things such as edit the community. So for example, I'm just going to change Albany to AAAA. And I'm going to change the county that it's in from Nemaha to Marshall County. And so if I update that, you'll see that when this reloads, it gets updated with the new name. the new county, and we'll see that it was updated less than a minute ago on our table. Of course, we can edit things, we can delete things, we can create new communities, and we can also do the same here with documents. And so the documents is a little bit different because we have to go through a process of not just creating the document, but uploading the document. And so I've got some examples here of me testing the upload process, where I can actually create a new document. So I'll create a document, and then I can hit this file chooser, and I can choose any file for my computer. So I'll just pick a file that I created for this. And when I hit save, it will save the document and upload the document, so that when I get back here, I'll see my video, it gives it a random name, it's an image, but if I click on this, it will actually take me to the document that got uploaded. So this is a little trickier to do. But basically by the end of this, you should be able to manage the communities and documents. 

And then the basic idea is your final project in this class will be to add the metadata part. And so instead of having just a table view, the metadata will have a little bit more of a component view, very similar to what you were doing in the earlier milestones, where we wanna view that in a nice way that's user-friendly instead of just this table interface that allows us to edit the database tables. So that's really where we're going in this class. Hopefully everything makes sense. As always, if you have any questions, let me know. But basically keep an eye on Canvas. I'll try and get the new content for the last couple of weeks in the class posted shortly. I'm always available for questions, so feel free to reach out. Otherwise, best of luck, and I will see you again next week. 


