---
title: "Spring '25 Week 14"
weight: 35
pre: ""
---

{{< youtube P3N-EcYNWfk >}}

#### Video Script

Hello, and welcome to the week 14 announcements video for CIS 526 and CC 515 in spring 2025. So we're down here on week 14. So we've got some advanced topics on working with your RESTful API and view.js that you can take a look at. There's a quick tutorial that you can run through. Mostly it's just going through the stuff that I talk about in the textbook. Those advanced topics include using Pinia as a store to store data. We've kind of looked at Pinia a little bit but we haven't dug into it too deeply. So this gives you another example for creating a Pinia store. We talk about ways that you can reuse components in your web app so that you can actually have these pop-up edit boxes that are really useful. And then the rest of the time we spend a lot of time talking about how to deploy your app using things like a Docker file, creating a Docker compose file to actually deploy it on a real server. And then we talk about the changes that you need to make to your application if you want to support an external database such as Postgres. And so what I want you to do is go through all these advanced topics, kind of get them working in your project and submit that. 

And then the last thing you'll be working on is the final project milestone. I will try and get that posted here today or tomorrow. I'm finishing writing that right now. Basically the final project will be to build on top of your web app to add the interface for the metadata. So you'll have a user-friendly interface that shows all of the different metadata and it will take you to an individual page where you can see the metadata. And if they have the correct permissions, they'll be able to edit that metadata. That's what we're really looking for for your final project. I'm working on getting that formalized. So hopefully that all works well. 

Also, I posted an ed discussion if anybody had any issues with GitHub Codespaces over the weekend, I apologize for that. There was a billing mishap on our Codespaces account. I think I have that resolved. If you still are not getting Codespace access, let me know and I'll take a look at that. 

The last thing you should be working on is a response to our guest speaker, Heather. If you were able to attend in person and asked a question during the in-person session, you've already gotten a grade recorded for this. Otherwise, what you'll need to do is watch the video of Heather's presentation. It's about an hour long and then I'd like you to respond to these three question prompts that I have here Each response should be more than just a few words or a single sentence I really want you to think deeply and show that you've looked at the video You've thought kind of about some of the things that Heather shared and you add a little bit to that discussion by responding to these Prompts here. So make sure you're working on that. This is due coming up pretty soon. So make sure you get that submitted It's due May 2nd for everybody, which is the end of this week So hopefully that goes well, but that's really it 

That's where we're at at the end of the semester is getting these last couple of things done Also, make sure you go back and look at your grades If you have anything from the previous content make sure you're getting caught up on that I know that there are several students that have not finished milestone 5 from Nathan's content before spring break Make sure you get that all put in I will start adding zeros to the gradebook soon So if you see your grade immediately tanking That's probably because you missed some assignments in the back and you need to go back in and get those finished so Hopefully that helps. As always, if you have any questions, let me know. Otherwise, best of luck this week. I will probably post one more announcements video next week. Hopefully by then I'll be able to show off a model solution for what the final project could look like. Doesn't have to look like mine, but hopefully I'll have a finalized product so you can kind of get an idea of what I'm thinking about. Otherwise, best of luck this week, and I will see you all next week. 
