---
title: "Spring '25 Week 9"
weight: 10
pre: ""
---

{{< youtube Z6vmwuhX2jo >}}

#### Video Script

Hello, everybody, and welcome to the week nine announcements video for CIS 526 and CC 515 in spring 2025. Not much new to add this week. Hopefully, everybody got started on the RESTful API starter over spring break, which was due yesterday. I see that several people have already submitted this. This project is pretty easy. All you really have to do is accept the GitHub classroom and then build the starter project following exactly through my videos. There's maybe about an hour and a half to two hours worth of videos of me going through it. But I give you every single piece of code for this first one. This is mainly just a tutorial that you follow along to be able to build the starter project that we're gonna work on from there. But it includes a lot of really good explanations of why I'm structuring the things the way I am. Gives you some interactive tutorials of how to add documentation and things to your code. So I think this is a really good thing just to see how one person would approach an express starter project. 

Then starting this week, we're gonna add a database to our project. So we go through a tutorial for adding a SQLite database to our project. And then I go through adding a couple of things to the project, namely the users and the roles tables. So you add a couple of migrations, a couple of data seeds. You put everything together so that your project now has data. That milestone is due next Monday. And so that includes a tutorial that you're gonna submit the tutorial by making a release commit on GitHub. And then immediately after that, you're going to continue to work in the same GitHub repository to then add the milestone content on top of it. And so when we do grading, we're gonna check out your repository and we're gonna look for that tag that you created as part of this tutorial. We'll grade that and then we will check it out again. We'll look for the tag that you submitted here for your milestone that will be your tutorial plus your additional milestone content. This basically gives you a chance to get quite a few tutorial points by doing the tutorial, tagging it properly. And then there's more points available for projects as you add the database. If you're unsure how to do any of that, most of it's covered in the videos. If not, let me know or talk to Josh, the GTA, and we're more than happy to help. 

So the milestone for this week is pretty simple. You're going to take your starter project that you turned in last week. You're going to add a database to it. In my example, I show you how to add the users and the roles and the user roles table. What you're going to add is you're going to add the metadata, documents, communities, and counties table, as well as these many to many join tables for joining metadata and documents and metadata and communities. So this is the database diagram that you will be following. Hopefully it makes sense. Hopefully it's all in there correct. If you have any suggestions or corrections to this, let me know, but I'm pretty sure this is correct based on what you should have learned in your database course. There's also some seed data that you'll add into this program. I give a little hint for seeding data from a CSV file. If you go to the course on Canvas and you look at the files, there is your seed data right here. This is a zip file of the seed data, the CSV files that you will use to seed the data into the database. And it should be pretty straightforward to do that, but if you run it in the errors or have any questions, feel free to let us know. 

Anyway, that's all I've got that's new for this week. Hopefully the new content is going well. But as always, if you have any questions or concerns about it, please go to Ed discussion and either post in there or post something under the bug bounty thread if you find any mistakes or corrections for my work. I'm always looking for that, especially because this is a lot of new content this year. But as always, hopefully things are going well. Best of luck, and I will see you again next week. 
